after wading in waist-deep water for
most of the day the rescue team are
still no closer to finding the orangutan
spotted in the local school they hate to
admit defeat but have decided to call it
a day but on the way back to the village
there's an unexpected tip-off someone
seen something moving through the trees
on the edge of the village this could be
it
but after rushing headlong through the
surrounding jungle the team finds
something they never expected busines
they look over it
this guy there's a sense of
disappointment but the team know this is
for the best the orangutan has obviously
moved on it was only here while the
trees were fruiting and now the food's
gone so is he it's great these children
sort of wild orangutan but the team
can't launch a full-scale rescue every
time someone sets eyes on one as their
forest home shrinks it's increasingly
important that orangutan zan people
learn to live side by side loner and her
team work hard to spread that message
not just to the public but also to the
logging companies and plantation owners
encouraging them to develop more
orangutan friendly ways of working
she'll never stop them entirely but
working with them she hopes that
Borneo's orangutangs might avoid
extinction or vole owner has been around
long enough to know that not every story
has a happy ending
sadly after his terrifying fall Samanta
was lost his fight for life we did
everything we could do we gave him two
blood transfusions a whole lot of other
treatments as well but I think it was a
combination the fact that he was in
quite a poor State to start off with and
and obviously a fall like that would
actually kill most people right at the
beginning it was just too much for him
with like some Anto who has been wild
you know he was one of the ones that
never really calmed down a lot of people
will say well why don't we just use our
efforts in trying to save the the wild
animals that are still left in the wild
instead of you know all these
individuals what I'm going to do with
them anyway but I do think that every
every every life is very very precious
because in the end it might be the
Wrangell tanks that we have here that's
going to save the species